# Gameone
This repository is for a simple game that takes inspiration from old video games such as The Legend Of Zelda 1 on NES, it uses SFML 2.5.1

The game is programmed in C++ and uses SFML 2.5.1 for graphics, audio, window, etc. The purpose of this project is simply to practice programming and try some new things, as well as learning how to use github.

A breif description of the game:
  The game it's self was not planned out, as i said, it was simply a learning project i started, and isn't a long term thing, simply for practice. I implemented ideas as they popped into my head, it is a top down point of view and the textures were created in paint.net, I didn't spend a lot of time on textures because I wanted to spend more time on the actual programming part, i may update the textures and make them better later on though.
  The game will only run properly in 720p resolution, with a 16:9 aspect ratio, otherwise it breaks because there is an inconsistency with calculating how big or small things should be as well as the collision, the inconsistency is that I used variables for some things and calculated them based on the resolution, but used constants for other things therefore they are not updated when the resolution is updated causing bugs. Being more consistent as well as writing cleaner code are things I am trying to improve on currently so i may go back and fix this later on if I don't move on to a new project.
  The game is designed like this; you have a tile, a tile can either have collision or not, and it has a texture. A tile is 40x40 pixels. Then you have a room, a room is just a matrix of tiles with setters and getters. The room also has a vector for items (will explain items further down). Then there is the roombuilder, which allows you to select a tile and place it in a position in the room, the roombuilder has a vector of rooms and you can create as many as you like with it and place all the different tiles. The roombuilder also allows the placement of items; items are partially implemented currently however do not do anything other than get removed from the room's items vector when the player touches them and go into the player's inventory currently. There is a namespace materials which defines all the different tiles and items. there is only one instance of each item/tile in the game, however, this single instance is drawn multiple times to give the appearance of multiple tiles, each tile/item has a numeric ID which is used to determine collision and other things, and there is a function in the Materials namespace to get the pointer to the tile/item based on it's ID.
  Items are similar to tiles, however they can be placed anywhere and when the player touches them they get deleted from the room and go into the players inventory. They also aren't necessarily 40x40 pixels, and use a sprite instead of simply a square with a texture, meaning they can appear to have arbitrary shapes (even though their collision is still their bounding rectangle).
  
 The IDE I am using is code::blocks, it is c++14, it is compiled with mingw.
